# RetroPiZero1.3_setup_net-ssh_over_USB
A setup for Retropie in Raspberry Pi Zero and a method to connect it to the internet using only your Linux PC and a USB cable and connect to it via SSH.

   I recently bought a Raspberry Pi Zero 1.3 and flashed a RetroPie 4.6 image to it's SD card. Testing some emulators using the stock settings, I noticed some expected issues. For example, testing snes9x_2002 (standard emulator for SNES on RPI Zero), I noticed that SuperFX games ran poorly. Some of the other more graphics demanding games, such as Donkey Kong Country 3, suffered with major fps drops and poor audio.
    To solve this problem I followed this conservative overclock setup: https://www.reddit.com/r/RetroPie/comments/bs0a0i/snes_performance_benchmarks_on_pi_zero_and_how_to/. According to the link, with the recommended settings, you can achieve a increase of 30% in the RPi performance emulating SNES.
    Then I wanted to install an optional SNES emulator to it, PiSnes, which was developed to run in the RPi Zero. However, since there's no built-in wifi in this board, I had no connection to the Internet. Solving this second problem required following the instructions presented on this link: https://www.slideshare.net/GSHCO/raspberry-zero-usb-in-linux. That way, you can connect the RPi Zero to your Linux PC using only a USB cable and access it via SSH. According to the link, you can share Internet from your PC to the RPi Zero using only the instructions presented: connect the RPi Zero to your PC using a USB cable, wait for around 90 seconds for the RPi to boot and connect your PC to the new USB-Ethernet network using a manually defined IP (the same that was defined as standard gateway in the RPi Zero, 192.168.7.1 if you followed the tutorial). Then you can ping or SSH your RPi Zero using the static IP defined for the RPi, 192.168.7.2 if you followed the tutorial.
    There was some issues, though. Trying to ping using the address raspberrypi.local or ssh using pi@raspberrypi never worked for me, so I always needed to ping or SSH the RPi Zero using it's IP. To successfully connect the RPi Zero to the Internet and ping google.com, it was necessary to do one more step: edit the file /etc/resolv.conf and include the line (with no quotation) 'nameserver 8.8.8.8'.
    And there it is, my current RetroPie setup for the Raspberry Pi Zero 1.3. Now I am having a bad time emulating GBA on my RPi and looking forward to solve this. I included the GBA BIOS in my RPi's /home/pi/RetroPie/BIOS and defined the GBA standard emulator as lr-mgba, because lr-gpsp is just not working. With lr-mgba I am facing some major fps drops and sound crackling. Any improvements in my setup and I include the new info here.
